examples/list-partitions/README.md, before:

# Specify a list of partitions

You can allow your job to run on more than one SLURM partition. In this case,
SLURM will choose which partition to run your job on. From the `sbatch`
manpage:

> If the job can use more than one partition, specify their names in a comma
  separate list and the one offering earliest initiation will be used with no
  regard given to the partition name ordering (although higher priority
  partitions will be considered first).


```yaml
cluster:
  sbatch
    --partition={resources.partition}
    --qos={resources.qos}
    --cpus-per-task={threads}
    --mem={resources.mem_mb}
    --job-name=smk-{rule}-{wildcards}
    --output=logs/{rule}/{rule}-{wildcards}-%j.out
default-resources:
  - partition="partition1,partition2,partition3,partition4,partition5"
  - qos=<name-of-quality-of-service>
  - mem_mb=1000
```

You can still specify a partition for jobs in the Snakefile as usual:

```python
rule partition1_only:
    resources:
        partition="partition1",
    shell:
        'echo "executed on partition1"'


rule any_partition:
    shell:
        'echo "executed on whichever partition Slurm chose"'

```

**Note:** This example was inspired by the discussion in [Issue #16][issue-16]

[issue-16]: https://github.com/jdblischak/smk-simple-slurm/issues/16

Commit message:

Update for Snakemake 8.0+ (#23)
* Ignore .idea

* Added `snakemake-executor-plugin-cluster-generic`, as it is required in snakemake 8.0+

* Updated cluster-cancel example

* Converted cluster-cancel to v8

* Updated conditional resource with v8 flags

* Updated conditional-resource

* Updated dynamic-resources

* Renamed config to match v8+

* Fix documentation to focus only on v8+

* Add v8+ configuration

* Ignore .DS_Store

* Added `executor: cluster-generic` to all configs

* Added `jobs` to config as it is required by Snakemake for cluster jobs

* Added `executor` to profile example

* Fix formatting caused by auto-yaml formatter

* Add v8 config

* Fix awk to access the 6th field

* Remove <v8 config

* Remove <v8 config

* Remove <v8 config

* Remove <v8 config

* Update readme for v8+

* Remove <v8 options

* Remove <v8 config

* Fix `snakefmt` errors

* Remove <v8 config

* Remove <v8+ config

* Remove <v8 configs

* Added default v8+ config

* Fix yaml example

* chore: Update .gitignore to ignore .idea and .vscode directories

* chore: Update shared-logs README.md to reference config.v8+.yaml

* chore: Update README.md to fix show `log` type

* Create a notice that `--slurm` is no longer supported and all `config.yaml` should use the new `--cluster-generic-*-cmd` yaml keys/cli flags

* Move all `snakemake.utils.min_version(...)` to use 8.0.0, as this is what is required to use the new yaml keys

* Use `--cluster-generic-*-cmd` flags

* Add `--parsable`

* Update main README.md to v8

---------

Co-authored-by: Josh Loecker <joshloecker@icloud.com>

examples/list-partitions/README.md, after:

# Specify a list of partitions

You can allow your job to run on more than one SLURM partition. In this case,
SLURM will choose which partition to run your job on.  
From the `sbatch` manpage:

> If the job can use more than one partition, specify their names in a comma
  separate list and the one offering earliest initiation will be used with no
  regard given to the partition name ordering (although higher priority
  partitions will be considered first).


```yaml
executor: cluster-generic
cluster-generic-submit-cmd:
  sbatch
    --partition={resources.partition}
    --qos={resources.qos}
    --cpus-per-task={threads}
    --mem={resources.mem_mb}
    --job-name=smk-{rule}-{wildcards}
    --output=logs/{rule}/{rule}-{wildcards}-%j.out
default-resources:
  - partition="partition1,partition2,partition3,partition4,partition5"
  - qos=<name-of-quality-of-service>
  - mem_mb=1000
```

You can still specify a partition for jobs in the Snakefile as usual:

```python
rule partition1_only:
    resources:
        partition="partition1",
    shell:
        'echo "executed on partition1"'


rule any_partition:
    shell:
        'echo "executed on whichever partition Slurm chose"'

```

**Note:** This example was inspired by the discussion in [Issue #16][issue-16]

[issue-16]: https://github.com/jdblischak/smk-simple-slurm/issues/16
