examples/cluster-cancel/README.md, before:

# Cancel running jobs with `--cluster-cancel`

The smk-simple-slurm profile uses `--cluster` and not `--drmaa`. By default,
this means that if you cancel the main Snakemake process, any already submitted
jobs remain in the queue. To automatically cancel all running jobs when you
cancel the main Snakemake process (ie the default behavior of `--drmaa`), you
can specify `cluster-cancel: scancel`. This will result in the job IDs of the
running jobs to be passed to `scancel`.

**Note:** This [feature][cluster-cancel] was added in Snakemake 7.0.0

[cluster-cancel]: https://snakemake.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorial/additional_features.html#using-cluster-cancel

**Note:** Similar to `--cluster-status`, you must include the flag `--parsable`
to the `sbatch` command passed to `--cluster` in order to pass the job ID to
`scancel`.

**Note:** The flag `--cluster-cancel-nargs` control how many job IDs are passed
to each invocation of `scancel`. The default is 1000. I changed it to 50 in this
example simply to confirm that `scancel` can be called more than once (since
this example `Snakefile` submits 100 jobs). I recommend using the default unless
you have a specific reason to increase or decrease it.

**Note:** Only press Ctrl-C once. If you press it too quickly a second time,
Snakemake will be killed before it can finish canceling all the jobs with
`scancel`.

```sh
# Sumbit the jobs
snakemake --profile simple/

# Once the jobs have been submitted, kill snakemake with ctrl+c

# Confirm the error message was CANCELLED
grep -l CANCELLED logs/sleeper/sleeper-iteration\=* | wc -l
```

Commit message:

Update for Snakemake 8.0+ (#23)
* Ignore .idea

* Added `snakemake-executor-plugin-cluster-generic`, as it is required in snakemake 8.0+

* Updated cluster-cancel example

* Converted cluster-cancel to v8

* Updated conditional resource with v8 flags

* Updated conditional-resource

* Updated dynamic-resources

* Renamed config to match v8+

* Fix documentation to focus only on v8+

* Add v8+ configuration

* Ignore .DS_Store

* Added `executor: cluster-generic` to all configs

* Added `jobs` to config as it is required by Snakemake for cluster jobs

* Added `executor` to profile example

* Fix formatting caused by auto-yaml formatter

* Add v8 config

* Fix awk to access the 6th field

* Remove <v8 config

* Remove <v8 config

* Remove <v8 config

* Remove <v8 config

* Update readme for v8+

* Remove <v8 options

* Remove <v8 config

* Fix `snakefmt` errors

* Remove <v8 config

* Remove <v8+ config

* Remove <v8 configs

* Added default v8+ config

* Fix yaml example

* chore: Update .gitignore to ignore .idea and .vscode directories

* chore: Update shared-logs README.md to reference config.v8+.yaml

* chore: Update README.md to fix show `log` type

* Create a notice that `--slurm` is no longer supported and all `config.yaml` should use the new `--cluster-generic-*-cmd` yaml keys/cli flags

* Move all `snakemake.utils.min_version(...)` to use 8.0.0, as this is what is required to use the new yaml keys

* Use `--cluster-generic-*-cmd` flags

* Add `--parsable`

* Update main README.md to v8

---------

Co-authored-by: Josh Loecker <joshloecker@icloud.com>

examples/cluster-cancel/README.md, after:

# Cancel running jobs with `--cluster-generic-cancel-cmd`

The smk-simple-slurm profile uses `--cluster-generic-submit-cmd` and not `--drmaa`. By default,
this means that if you cancel the main Snakemake process, any already submitted
jobs remain in the queue. To automatically cancel all running jobs when you
cancel the main Snakemake process (ie the default behavior of `--drmaa`), you
can specify `cluster-generic-cancel-cmd: scancel`. This will result in the job IDs of the
running jobs to be passed to `scancel`.

**Note:** This [feature][cluster-cancel] was added in Snakemake 7.0.0

[cluster-cancel]: https://snakemake.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorial/additional_features.html#using-cluster-cancel

**Note:** Similar to `--cluster-generic-status-cmd`, you must include the flag `--parsable`
to the `sbatch` command passed to `--cluster-generic-cancel-cmd` in order to pass the job ID to
`scancel`.

**Note:** The flag `--cluster-generic-cancel-nargs` control how many job IDs are passed
to each invocation of `scancel`. The default is 1000. I changed it to 50 in this
example simply to confirm that `scancel` can be called more than once (since
this example `Snakefile` submits 100 jobs). I recommend using the default unless
you have a specific reason to increase or decrease it.

**Note:** Only press Ctrl-C once. If you press it too quickly a second time,
Snakemake will be killed before it can finish canceling all the jobs with
`scancel`.

```sh
# Sumbit the jobs
snakemake --profile simple/

# Once the jobs have been submitted, kill snakemake with ctrl+c

# Confirm the error message was CANCELLED
grep -l CANCELLED logs/sleeper/sleeper-iteration\=* | wc -l
```
