examples/slurm-native/README.md, before:

# Native Slurm support

[Native support for Slurm][docs-native-slurm] with the flag `--slurm` was added
in [Snakemake 7.19.0 (2022-12-13)][7.19.0].

[docs-native-slurm]: https://snakemake.readthedocs.io/en/stable/executing/cluster.html#executing-on-slurm-clusters
[7.19.0]: https://github.com/snakemake/snakemake/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#7190-2022-12-13

This example demonstrates how to use the new `--slurm` flag within the
smk-simple-slurm framework. Since it is also simple, it is very compatible! The
most noticeable difference is that the log files are saved to
`.snakemake/slurm_logs/` (each rule gets its own subdirectory, but the wildcards
aren't included in the filenames). The native Slurm support also prefers to
explicitly know your Slurm account. If you don't provide it, it will

```sh
# If you don't know your Slurm account, find it here
sacctmgr show user $USER accounts
# and define it in simple/config.yaml

snakemake --profile simple/

ls .snakemake/slurm_logs/
## rule_rule1  rule_rule2  rule_rule3
```

Note that you can either specify `--slurm` and `--default-resources` at the
command line or in `simple/config.yaml`. Don't try to mix and match. When I
defined `--slurm` at the command line, the `default-resources` in
`simple/config.yaml` were ignored.

Also note that I often got a `KeyError` from `slurm_submit.py`. If this happens
to you, try re-running.

Commit message:

Update for Snakemake 8.0+ (#23)
* Ignore .idea

* Added `snakemake-executor-plugin-cluster-generic`, as it is required in snakemake 8.0+

* Updated cluster-cancel example

* Converted cluster-cancel to v8

* Updated conditional resource with v8 flags

* Updated conditional-resource

* Updated dynamic-resources

* Renamed config to match v8+

* Fix documentation to focus only on v8+

* Add v8+ configuration

* Ignore .DS_Store

* Added `executor: cluster-generic` to all configs

* Added `jobs` to config as it is required by Snakemake for cluster jobs

* Added `executor` to profile example

* Fix formatting caused by auto-yaml formatter

* Add v8 config

* Fix awk to access the 6th field

* Remove <v8 config

* Remove <v8 config

* Remove <v8 config

* Remove <v8 config

* Update readme for v8+

* Remove <v8 options

* Remove <v8 config

* Fix `snakefmt` errors

* Remove <v8 config

* Remove <v8+ config

* Remove <v8 configs

* Added default v8+ config

* Fix yaml example

* chore: Update .gitignore to ignore .idea and .vscode directories

* chore: Update shared-logs README.md to reference config.v8+.yaml

* chore: Update README.md to fix show `log` type

* Create a notice that `--slurm` is no longer supported and all `config.yaml` should use the new `--cluster-generic-*-cmd` yaml keys/cli flags

* Move all `snakemake.utils.min_version(...)` to use 8.0.0, as this is what is required to use the new yaml keys

* Use `--cluster-generic-*-cmd` flags

* Add `--parsable`

* Update main README.md to v8

---------

Co-authored-by: Josh Loecker <joshloecker@icloud.com>

examples/slurm-native/README.md, after:

# Native Slurm support

[Native support for Slurm][docs-native-slurm] was added in [Snakemake 7.19.0 (2022-12-13)][7.19.0], but has since been removed by the breaking changes in [Snakemake 8.0.0][8.0.0].

[docs-native-slurm]: https://snakemake.readthedocs.io/en/stable/executing/cluster.html#executing-on-slurm-clusters
[7.19.0]: https://github.com/snakemake/snakemake/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#7190-2022-12-13
[8.0.0]: https://github.com/snakemake/snakemake/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#800-2023-12-20


With these breaking changes, it is a little more difficult to use slurm (or any cluster, for that matter).

With the introduction of the `--cluster-generic-*-cmd` flags and yaml keys, it no longer makes sense to create an example for native Slurm support, as all cluster support is abstracted into these keys and flags.


If you were previously using the native Slurm support and would like to use `snakemake>8.0.0`, you should rename your `config.yaml` to `config.v8+.yaml` and change the keys according to the following documentation:
-  The general [smk-simple-slurm](https://github.com/jdblischak/smk-simple-slurm) repository
-  The default [smk-simple slurm `config.v8.yaml` example](https://github.com/jdblischak/smk-simple-slurm/blob/main/simple/config.v8+.yaml)
- The [snakemake migration documentation][8.0.0]


If you need help, please [open an issue](https://github.com/jdblischak/smk-simple-slurm/issues) on this repository (and optionally ping/mention [@JoshLoecker](https://github.com/JoshLoecker), as [@jdblischak](https://github.com/jdblischak) is very busy as of now).
