examples/timeout/README.md, before:

# Handle timeout error with `--cluster-status`

Snakemake can **not** handle timeout errors from Slurm by default (`TIMEOUT`).
You need to pass a custom script to `--cluster-status` to process timeout
errors. You have multiple options for this custom script in `extras/`.

The example has has one rule that requests 10 seconds of runtime and sleeps for
30 seconds. By default Snakemake will fail to see the failed job and stall
indefinitely waiting for the job to complete.

**Note:** At least on the current HPC cluster I have access to, `--qos`
overrides the value I set for `--time`. If this job doesn't fail for you, you'll
need to set `qos` to the option with the shortest runtime and increase the
`sleep` time. Alternatively you can kill the job yourself with `scancel`, which
simulates the same effect (i.e. only works with `--cluster-status`).

**Note:** I already added the flag `--parsable` to the call to `sbatch` in
`config.yaml`. This is required to pass only the job ID to the cluster status
scripts.

```sh
# Sumbit the job
snakemake --profile simple/

# Once the job fails, kill snakemake with ctrl+c

# Confirm the the error message
grep error logs/timeout/timeout--*.out

# Submit the job with --cluster-status
snakemake --profile simple/ --cluster-status ../../extras/status-sacct.sh
# If sacct isn't configured on your cluster, use the scontrol version
snakemake --profile simple/ --cluster-status ../../extras/status-scontrol.sh
```

Commit message:

Update for Snakemake 8.0+ (#23)
* Ignore .idea

* Added `snakemake-executor-plugin-cluster-generic`, as it is required in snakemake 8.0+

* Updated cluster-cancel example

* Converted cluster-cancel to v8

* Updated conditional resource with v8 flags

* Updated conditional-resource

* Updated dynamic-resources

* Renamed config to match v8+

* Fix documentation to focus only on v8+

* Add v8+ configuration

* Ignore .DS_Store

* Added `executor: cluster-generic` to all configs

* Added `jobs` to config as it is required by Snakemake for cluster jobs

* Added `executor` to profile example

* Fix formatting caused by auto-yaml formatter

* Add v8 config

* Fix awk to access the 6th field

* Remove <v8 config

* Remove <v8 config

* Remove <v8 config

* Remove <v8 config

* Update readme for v8+

* Remove <v8 options

* Remove <v8 config

* Fix `snakefmt` errors

* Remove <v8 config

* Remove <v8+ config

* Remove <v8 configs

* Added default v8+ config

* Fix yaml example

* chore: Update .gitignore to ignore .idea and .vscode directories

* chore: Update shared-logs README.md to reference config.v8+.yaml

* chore: Update README.md to fix show `log` type

* Create a notice that `--slurm` is no longer supported and all `config.yaml` should use the new `--cluster-generic-*-cmd` yaml keys/cli flags

* Move all `snakemake.utils.min_version(...)` to use 8.0.0, as this is what is required to use the new yaml keys

* Use `--cluster-generic-*-cmd` flags

* Add `--parsable`

* Update main README.md to v8

---------

Co-authored-by: Josh Loecker <joshloecker@icloud.com>

examples/timeout/README.md, after:

# Handle timeout error with `--cluster-generic-status-cmd`

Snakemake can **not** handle timeout errors from Slurm by default (`TIMEOUT`).
You need to pass a custom script to `--cluster-generic-status-cmd` to process timeout
errors. You have multiple options for this custom script in `extras/`.

The example has has one rule that requests 10 seconds of runtime and sleeps for
30 seconds. By default Snakemake will fail to see the failed job and stall
indefinitely waiting for the job to complete.

**Note:** At least on the current HPC cluster I have access to, `--qos`
overrides the value I set for `--time`. If this job doesn't fail for you, you'll
need to set `qos` to the option with the shortest runtime and increase the
`sleep` time. Alternatively you can kill the job yourself with `scancel`, which
simulates the same effect (i.e. only works with `--cluster-generic-status-cmd`).

**Note:** I already added the flag `--parsable` to the call to `sbatch` in
`config.v8+.yaml`. This is required to pass only the job ID to the cluster status
scripts.

```sh
# Sumbit the job
snakemake --profile simple/

# Once the job fails, kill snakemake with ctrl+c

# Confirm the the error message
grep error logs/timeout/timeout--*.out

# Submit the job with --cluster-generic-status-cmd
snakemake --profile simple/ --cluster-generic-status-cmd ../../extras/status-sacct.sh
# If sacct isn't configured on your cluster, use the scontrol version
snakemake --profile simple/ --cluster-generic-status-cmd ../../extras/status-scontrol.sh
```
